docs(state) add snippet description (#79)
BioPhoton/rx-angular: libs/state/docs/snippets/component-logic-comparison.md

# Logic comparison - Increment a Value

This snippet compares 3 different implementations of the same problem.

> It serves as small refactoring guide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It serves as a small refactoring guide
```

and shows the difference of imperative and declarative/reactive programming.

> Problem:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Problem**:
```

> As problem we discuss a component which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have a component that:
```

- maintains a state `{ count: number }`
- displays the actual value of `count`
- increments the count over a button click binding

## Imperative

> State:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**State**:
```

> The components state is maintain as simple object `state: { count: number } = {};`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The components' state is a simple object `state: { count: number } = {};`.
```

> Display:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Display**:
```

To display the value we use a template expression `{{ state.count }}`.
This expression gets reevaluated whenever the component re-renders.

> Action:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Action**:
```

The state gets incremented by one whenever the button gets clicked.
The click binding is set-up over an event binding `(click)` and fires the callback `onClick`.
This callback increments the state's `count` property, `this.state.count = this.state.count + 1;`

> Rendering:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Rendering**:
```

> The click binding fires a zone event and the component and its ancestors get marked dirty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The click binding gets detected by zone which in turn flags this component and all of its ancestors as dirty.
```

> `ApplicationRef.tick` fires and re-renders the whole component tree. Every component which is marked as dirty gets re-rendered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This results in an `ApplicationRef.tick` call which re-renders all dirty flagged components.
```

## Reactive reading

> State:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**State**:
```

> The components state is maintain over `RxState` by extending the class `export class MyComponent extends RxState<{ count: number }> {`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The components state gets managed with `RxState` by extending the class. `export class MyComponent extends RxState<{ count: number }> {`
```

> The components state is typed as `{ count: number }`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The components' state is a simple object: `{ count: number }`.
```

> In the class the state gets provided as Observable `state$ = this.select();`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside the class we expose our state as Observable `readonly state$ = this.select();`
```

> Display:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Display**:
```

> To display the value we use a reactive structural directive `*rxLet`
> which binds the `state$` output to its host th div element.
> Inside we simply use display the state over a template expression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To display the value we use a a simple structural directive called `*rxLet` which binds the `state$` property of the component to its `host element`. We can then assign our state observable to a `local template variable`.
```

> Whenever the bound Observable emits a new value the `rxLet` directive fires `ChangeDetectorRef#markForCheck`.
> The component and its ancestors get marked dirty.
> `ApplicationRef.tick` fires and re-renders the whole component tree. Every component which is marked as dirty gets re-rendered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whenever the bound Observable emits a new value the `rxLet` directive flags this component and all of its ancestors as dirty.
```

> Action:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Action**:
```

The state gets incremented by one whenever the button gets clicked.
The click binding is set-up over an event binding `(click)` and fires the callback `onClick`.
This callback increments the state's `count` property by sending the new value `this.set('count', s => s.count + 1);`

> Rendering:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Rendering**:
```

> The click binding fires a zone event and the component and its ancestors get marked dirty.
> The `rxLet` directive fires `ChangeDetectorRef#markForCheck` and the component and its ancestors get marked dirty.
> `ApplicationRef.tick` fires and re-renders the whole component tree. Every component which is marked as dirty gets re-rendered.
> Important to know here is that the re-renders of the component tree gets triggered only one time even if the directive, and the click scheduled a re-rendering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The click binding gets detected by zone which in turn flags this component and all of its ancestors as dirty.
This results in an `ApplicationRef.tick` call which re-renders all dirty flagged components.
```

```typescript
@Component({
  selector: 'my-comp',
  template: `
    <div *rxLet="state$; let s">Value: {{ s.count }}</div>
    <button (click)="onClick($event)">Increment</button>
  `,
  changeDetection: ChangeDetectionStrategy.OnPush
})
export class MyComponent extends RxState<{ count: number }> {
  state$ = this.select();
  onClick(e) {
    this.set('count', s => s.count + 1);
  }
}
```

## Reactive Writing

> State:
> The components state is maintain over `RxState` by extending the class `export class MyComponent extends RxState<{ count: number }> {`
> The components state is typed as `{ count: number }`.
> In the class the state gets provided as Observable `state$ = this.select();`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**State**:
The components' state gets managed with `RxState` by extending the class. `export class MyComponent extends RxState<{ count: number }> {`
The components state is a simple interface `{ count: number }`.
Inside the class we expose our state as Observable `readonly state$ = this.select();`
```

> Display:
> To display the value we use a reactive structural directive `*rxLet`
> which binds the `state$` output to its host th div element.
> Inside we simply use display the state over a template expression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Display**:
To display the value we use a a simple structural directive called `*rxLet` which binds the `state$` property of the component to its `host element`. We can then assign our state observable to a `local template variable`.
```

> Whenever the bound Observable emits a new value the `rxLet` directive fires `ChangeDetectorRef#markForCheck`.
> The component and its ancestors get marked dirty.
> `ApplicationRef.tick` fires and re-renders the whole component tree. Every component which is marked as dirty gets re-rendered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whenever the bound Observable emits a new value the `rxLet` directive flags this component and all of its ancestors as dirty.
```

> Action:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Action**:
```

The state gets incremented by one whenever the button gets clicked.
In the class we use a Subject to track clicks `btn$ = new Subject();`.
The click binding is set-up over an event binding `(click)` and fires the Subjects `next` method.

> This Observable gets connected to the component state in the constructor `this.connect(btn$, (s, e) => ({ count: s.count + 1 }));`.
> Whenever the Subject emits we apply the increment logic over a passed function.
> The function signature looks like this: `(oldState: T, newValue: T[K]) => T`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Observable gets connected to the components' state in the constructor `this.connect(btn$, (oldState, clickEvent) => ({ count: s.count + 1 }));`.
Whenever the Subject emits, we apply the increment logic passed as a function.
The function signature looks like this: `(oldState: T, newValue: T[K]) => T`.
```

> Rendering:
> The click binding fires a zone event and the component and its ancestors get marked dirty.
> The `rxLet` directive fires `ChangeDetectorRef#markForCheck` and the component and its ancestors get marked dirty.
> `ApplicationRef.tick` fires and re-renders the whole component tree. Every component which is marked as dirty gets re-rendered.
> Important to know here is that the re-renders of the component tree gets triggered only one time even if the directive, and the click scheduled a re-rendering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Rendering**:
The click binding gets detected by zone which in turn flags this component and all of its ancestors as dirty.
This results in an `ApplicationRef.tick` call which re-renders all dirty flagged components.
```

>   state$ = this.select();
>   btn$ = new Subject();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  readonly state$ = this.select();
  readonly btn$ = new Subject();
```

  constructor() {
    this.connect(this.btn$, (s, e) => ({ count: s.count + 1 }));
  }
}
```

## Control rendering with `zoneless`

In this section we use the `zoneless` directive to get control over rendering.

The sections State ans Action are identical.
The Display has a small difference. We use the `zoneless` directive to get rid of renderings caused by the button eventListener.

Rendering:
A rerender gets only triggered by the `rxLet` directive. The process is the same as before.

```typescript
@Component({
  selector: 'my-comp',
  template: `
    <div *rxLet="state$; let s">Value: {{ s.count }}</div>
    <button [zoneless] (click)="btn$.next($event)">Increment</button>
  `,
  changeDetection: ChangeDetectionStrategy.OnPush
})
export class MyComponent extends RxState<{ count: number }> {
  state$ = this.select();
  btn$ = new Subject();
  constructor() {

>     this.connect(this.btn$, (s, e) => ({ count: s.count + 1 }));

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    this.connect(this.btn$, (oldState, clickEvent) => ({ count: s.count + 1 }));
```

  }
}
```

## Control rendering direction with rendering strategies

In this section we use the `strategy` option of the `rxLet` directive to get advanced control over rendering.

> The sections State ans Action are identical.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sections **State** and **Action** are identical to the previous examples.
```

> The Display has a small difference. We use the `local` strategy with our directive `*rxLet="state$; let s; strategy:'local'"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Rendering:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Rendering**:
```

> A rerender gets only triggered by the `rxLet` directive, but the process is now different.
> 
> Instead of marking all ancestors dirty we only rerender the very component and its children.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rendering still gets managed by the `rxLet` Directive. But with the `strategy` set to `local` changes will not result in a re-render of any ancestor component. Thus saving you tons of rendering cycles.
```
